docs/README.md, before:

<!--
parent:
  order: false
layout: home
-->

# Cosmos Hub Documentation

Welcome to the documentation of the **Cosmos Hub application: `ochain`**.

## What is Gaia?

- [Intro to the `ochain` software](./ochain-tutorials/what-is-ochain.md)

## Join the Cosmos Hub Mainnet

- [Install the `ochain` application](./ochain-tutorials/installation.md)
- [Set up a full node and join the mainnet](./ochain-tutorials/join-mainnet.md)
- [Upgrade to a validator node](./validators/validator-setup.md)

## Join the Cosmos Hub Public Testnet

- [Join the testnet](./ochain-tutorials/join-testnet.md)

## Setup Your Own `ochain` Testnet

- [Setup your own `ochain` testnet](./ochain-tutorials/deploy-testnet.md)

## Additional Resources

- [Validator Resources](./validators/README.md): Contains documentation for `ochain` validators.
- [Delegator Resources](./delegators/README.md): Contains documentation for delegators.
- [Other Resources](./resources/README.md): Contains documentation on `ochaind`, genesis file, service providers, ledger wallets, ...
- [Cosmos Hub Archives](./resources/archives.md): State archives of past iteration of the Cosmos Hub.

# Contribute

See [this file](./DOCS_README.md) for details of the build process and
considerations when making changes.

Commit message:

Swapped Cosmos Hub for Onomy

docs/README.md, after:

<!--
parent:
  order: false
layout: home
-->

# Onomy Documentation

Welcome to the documentation of the **Onomy application: `ochain`**.

## What is Ochain?

- [Intro to the `ochain` software](./ochain-tutorials/what-is-ochain.md)

## Join the Onomy Mainnet

- [Install the `ochain` application](./ochain-tutorials/installation.md)
- [Set up a full node and join the mainnet](./ochain-tutorials/join-mainnet.md)
- [Upgrade to a validator node](./validators/validator-setup.md)

## Join the Onomy Public Testnet

- [Join the testnet](./ochain-tutorials/join-testnet.md)

## Setup Your Own `ochain` Testnet

- [Setup your own `ochain` testnet](./ochain-tutorials/deploy-testnet.md)

## Additional Resources

- [Validator Resources](./validators/README.md): Contains documentation for `ochain` validators.
- [Delegator Resources](./delegators/README.md): Contains documentation for delegators.
- [Other Resources](./resources/README.md): Contains documentation on `ochaind`, genesis file, service providers, ledger wallets, ...
- [Onomy Archives](./resources/archives.md): State archives of past iteration of the Onomy.

# Contribute

See [this file](./DOCS_README.md) for details of the build process and
considerations when making changes.
